README.md, before:

# MyAI Notes

A lightweight, privacy-focused note-taking web application that uses OpenAI's and Anthropic's APIs to expand your short notes into detailed, well-structured text. All data is stored locally in your browser, ensuring complete privacy and control.

## Features

### Core Features
- **AI-Powered Expansion**: Transform short notes into detailed content using OpenAI GPT or Anthropic Claude models
- **Local Storage**: All notes are stored in your browser's localStorage - no server, no cloud
- **Markdown Rendering**: Expanded notes are rendered with beautiful Markdown formatting
- **Auto-Save**: Notes are automatically saved as you type
- **Export/Import**: Export individual notes as .txt files or all notes as JSON

### User Interface
- **Sidebar Layout**: Intuitive layout similar to modern note-taking apps
- **Dark/Light Mode**: Toggle between themes, with automatic system preference detection
- **Minimalist Design**: Clean, distraction-free interface focused on productivity
- **Responsive**: Works on desktop and mobile devices

### Customization
- **Model Selection**: Choose from GPT-4o, GPT-4o-mini, GPT-4 Turbo, GPT-3.5 Turbo, or Claude 3.x models
- **Temperature Control**: Adjust creativity level (0-2) for AI responses
- **Secure API Key Storage**: Your OpenAI API key is stored locally and never sent anywhere except OpenAI

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- A modern web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)
- An OpenAI API key (get one at [OpenAI Platform](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys))
- (Optional) An Anthropic Claude API key (get one at [Anthropic Console](https://console.anthropic.com/))

### Installation

#### Option 1: Use GitHub Pages (Recommended)
1. Fork this repository
2. Go to repository Settings > Pages
3. Under "Build and deployment", select:
   - Source: **GitHub Actions**
4. Push any commit to the `main` branch to trigger deployment
5. Your app will be available at `https://yourusername.github.io/myai-notes/`

#### Option 2: Run Locally
1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/myai-notes.git
   cd myai-notes
   ```

2. **Serve the app through a local web server** (required for Claude requests and recommended for OpenAI too):
   ```bash
   # Using Python 3
   python -m http.server 8000

   # Using Node.js
   npx serve
   ```

3. Navigate to `http://localhost:8000` in your browser

### Configuration

1. **Set Your OpenAI API Key**:
   - Click the Settings button (⚙️) in the top right
   - Enter your OpenAI API key (starts with `sk-`)
   - Click "Save Key"
   - Your key is stored locally and securely in your browser

2. **Set Your Claude API Key (Optional)**:
   - Toggle **Enable Claude (Anthropic)** in Settings
   - Enter your Claude API key (starts with `sk-ant-`)
   - Click "Save Key"
   - In the Anthropic Console, enable **Browser access** for that key so it can be used from this web app

   > **Note:** The app already sends the `anthropic-dangerous-direct-browser-access: true` header required for in-browser calls, following the [Claude API browser access guide](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/intro/browser-access). Without the browser access toggle, requests will be blocked and result in a network error.

3. **Configure Model Settings** (Optional):
   - Choose your preferred model (OpenAI or Claude)
   - Adjust the temperature (creativity) slider
   - Click "Save Model Settings"

## Usage

### Creating and Expanding Notes

1. **Create a New Note**:
   - Click the "+ New Note" button in the sidebar
   - Give your note a title
   - Write a short note in the input area

2. **Expand with AI**:
   - Click the "✨ Expand with AI" button
   - Wait for the AI to process your note
   - The expanded content appears on the right with Markdown formatting

3. **Save and Export**:
   - Notes are auto-saved as you type
   - Click "💾 Save" to manually save
   - Click "📄 Export as .txt" to download the current note
   - Click "📋 Copy" to copy the expanded content

### Managing Notes

- **View All Notes**: Your notes appear in the sidebar, sorted by most recent
- **Switch Notes**: Click any note in the sidebar to view/edit it
- **Delete Notes**: Click the 🗑️ button to delete the current note
- **Import/Export All**: Use the Import/Export buttons in the sidebar to backup all notes

### Themes

- Click the theme toggle button (🌙/☀️) in the header
- The app automatically detects your system preference on first load
- Your theme preference is saved and persists across sessions

### Troubleshooting Claude network errors

If you encounter the message `Network error: Unable to connect to Claude API`, work through the checklist below:

1. **Serve the app via HTTP/HTTPS** – Opening `index.html` directly from disk prevents secure cross-origin requests. Use a local server (`python -m http.server 8000`) or deploy to GitHub Pages.
2. **Enable browser access for your key** – In the Anthropic Console, visit **Settings → API Keys**, edit the key you saved in MyAI Notes, and toggle on **Browser access**.
3. **Allow outbound HTTPS** – Ensure your network allows access to `https://api.anthropic.com`. Corporate firewalls or VPNs may require allow-listing this domain.

After applying any changes, refresh the page and try expanding a note again.

## Project Structure

```
myai-notes/
├── index.html              # Main application page
├── settings.html           # Settings/configuration page
├── css/
│   └── style.css          # All styles with light/dark themes
├── js/
│   ├── main.js            # Core app logic (expand, save, export)
│   ├── storage.js         # localStorage management
│   ├── settings.js        # API key and model configuration
│   └── theme.js           # Dark/light mode toggle
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       ├── deploy.yml                 # GitHub Pages deployment config
│       └── pr-preview-artifact.yml    # Downloadable preview build for pull requests
└── README.md              # This file
```

## Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: HTML5, CSS3, Vanilla JavaScript (ES6+)
- **Storage**: Browser localStorage API
- **Markdown**: marked.js (v9.1.6)
- **API**: OpenAI Chat Completions API
- **Deployment**: GitHub Pages + GitHub Actions

## Security & Privacy

### What's Stored Locally
- Your OpenAI API key (encrypted by browser)
- All your notes and their content
- Model preferences (model type, temperature)
- Theme preference (light/dark)

### What's Sent to OpenAI
- Only the note content you choose to expand
- Your API key for authentication
- Model configuration (model name, temperature)

### What's NOT Collected
- No analytics or tracking
- No data sent to any third-party servers
- No account creation or login required
- No cookies (except localStorage for functionality)

### Best Practices
- Never share your API key with anyone
- Keep your OpenAI account secure
- Regularly backup your notes using JSON export
- Clear your API key if using a shared computer

## Cost Information

This app uses the OpenAI API, which charges based on usage:
- **GPT-4o-mini** (Recommended): ~$0.15 per million input tokens, ~$0.60 per million output tokens
- **GPT-4o**: ~$2.50 per million input tokens, ~$10 per million output tokens
- **GPT-3.5-turbo**: ~$0.50 per million input tokens, ~$1.50 per million output tokens

For typical note expansion (200 words in, 500 words out), expect:
- GPT-4o-mini: ~$0.001 per note
- GPT-4o: ~$0.01 per note

Check [OpenAI Pricing](https://openai.com/api/pricing/) for current rates.

## Troubleshooting

### "Please set your OpenAI API key in Settings"
- Go to Settings and enter your API key
- Make sure it starts with `sk-`
- Verify your key is valid at [OpenAI Platform](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)

### "Claude API key is missing"
- Toggle **Enable Claude (Anthropic)** in Settings
- Add your Claude key (should start with `sk-ant-`)
- Click **Save Key** and try again

### API Errors
- **401 Unauthorized**: Invalid API key
- **429 Rate Limit**: Too many requests, wait and try again
- **500 Server Error**: OpenAI service issue, try again later

### Network Errors When Calling Claude
- Ensure you are connected to the internet (the app will warn if you are offline)
- Make sure you are serving the app from `http://` or `https://` (opening `index.html` directly via `file://` prevents secure API calls)
- Verify that your firewall or browser settings allow outbound HTTPS requests to `https://api.anthropic.com`

### Notes Not Saving
- Check if localStorage is enabled in your browser
- Ensure you're not in private/incognito mode
- Check browser storage quota

### GitHub Pages Not Deploying
- Ensure GitHub Actions is enabled in repository settings
- Check that GitHub Pages source is set to "GitHub Actions"
- Review the Actions tab for deployment errors

## Development

### Pull Request Preview Environments

- Every open pull request automatically deploys a preview to the GitHub Pages site under
  `https://<your-username>.github.io/myai-notes/pr/<PR_NUMBER>/`.
- The PR bot comments with the exact link and updates it whenever new commits are pushed.
- Previews are cleaned up automatically when the pull request is closed.
- If you prefer downloadable archives instead, keep the `PR Preview (Downloadable)` workflow enabled.

### Local Development
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/myai-notes.git
cd myai-notes

# Serve locally
python -m http.server 8000
```

### Making Changes
1. Edit files in your local repository
2. Test thoroughly in your browser
3. Commit changes: `git commit -am "Description of changes"`
4. Push to main: `git push origin main`
5. GitHub Actions will automatically deploy to Pages

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Acknowledgments

- Built with vanilla JavaScript for simplicity and performance
- Markdown rendering by [marked.js](https://marked.js.org/)
- Powered by [OpenAI API](https://openai.com/api/) and [Anthropic Claude API](https://www.anthropic.com/)

## Support

For issues, questions, or suggestions:
- Open an issue on GitHub
- Check existing issues for solutions
- Review the OpenAI API documentation for API-related questions

---

Made with ❤️ for productive note-taking

Commit message:

Allow applying generated text to notes

README.md, after:

# MyAI Notes

A lightweight, privacy-focused note-taking web application that uses OpenAI's and Anthropic's APIs to expand your short notes into detailed, well-structured text. All data is stored locally in your browser, ensuring complete privacy and control.

## Features

### Core Features
- **AI-Powered Expansion**: Transform short notes into detailed content using OpenAI GPT or Anthropic Claude models
- **Local Storage**: All notes are stored in your browser's localStorage - no server, no cloud
- **Markdown Rendering**: Expanded notes are rendered with beautiful Markdown formatting
- **Auto-Save**: Notes are automatically saved as you type
- **Export/Import**: Export individual notes as .txt files or all notes as JSON

### User Interface
- **Sidebar Layout**: Intuitive layout similar to modern note-taking apps
- **Dark/Light Mode**: Toggle between themes, with automatic system preference detection
- **Minimalist Design**: Clean, distraction-free interface focused on productivity
- **Responsive**: Works on desktop and mobile devices

### Customization
- **Model Selection**: Choose from GPT-4o, GPT-4o-mini, GPT-4 Turbo, GPT-3.5 Turbo, or Claude 3.x models
- **Temperature Control**: Adjust creativity level (0-2) for AI responses
- **Secure API Key Storage**: Your OpenAI API key is stored locally and never sent anywhere except OpenAI

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- A modern web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)
- An OpenAI API key (get one at [OpenAI Platform](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys))
- (Optional) An Anthropic Claude API key (get one at [Anthropic Console](https://console.anthropic.com/))

### Installation

#### Option 1: Use GitHub Pages (Recommended)
1. Fork this repository
2. Go to repository Settings > Pages
3. Under "Build and deployment", select:
   - Source: **GitHub Actions**
4. Push any commit to the `main` branch to trigger deployment
5. Your app will be available at `https://yourusername.github.io/myai-notes/`

#### Option 2: Run Locally
1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/myai-notes.git
   cd myai-notes
   ```

2. **Serve the app through a local web server** (required for Claude requests and recommended for OpenAI too):
   ```bash
   # Using Python 3
   python -m http.server 8000

   # Using Node.js
   npx serve
   ```

3. Navigate to `http://localhost:8000` in your browser

### Configuration

1. **Set Your OpenAI API Key**:
   - Click the Settings button (⚙️) in the top right
   - Enter your OpenAI API key (starts with `sk-`)
   - Click "Save Key"
   - Your key is stored locally and securely in your browser

2. **Set Your Claude API Key (Optional)**:
   - Toggle **Enable Claude (Anthropic)** in Settings
   - Enter your Claude API key (starts with `sk-ant-`)
   - Click "Save Key"
   - In the Anthropic Console, enable **Browser access** for that key so it can be used from this web app

   > **Note:** The app already sends the `anthropic-dangerous-direct-browser-access: true` header required for in-browser calls, following the [Claude API browser access guide](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/intro/browser-access). Without the browser access toggle, requests will be blocked and result in a network error.

3. **Configure Model Settings** (Optional):
   - Choose your preferred model (OpenAI or Claude)
   - Adjust the temperature (creativity) slider
   - Click "Save Model Settings"

## Usage

### Creating and Expanding Notes

1. **Create a New Note**:
   - Click the "+ New Note" button in the sidebar
   - Give your note a title
   - Write a short note in the input area

2. **Expand with AI**:
   - Click the "✨ Expand with AI" button
   - Wait for the AI to process your note
   - The expanded content appears on the right with Markdown formatting
   - Click "📌 Set as Note" to replace your original text with the generated version (you can always return to editing with the "✏️ Edit" button)

3. **Save and Export**:
   - Notes are auto-saved as you type
   - Click "💾 Save" to manually save
   - Click "📄 Export as .txt" to download the current note
   - Click "📋 Copy" to copy the expanded content

### Managing Notes

- **View All Notes**: Your notes appear in the sidebar, sorted by most recent
- **Switch Notes**: Click any note in the sidebar to view/edit it
- **Delete Notes**: Click the 🗑️ button to delete the current note
- **Import/Export All**: Use the Import/Export buttons in the sidebar to backup all notes

### Themes

- Click the theme toggle button (🌙/☀️) in the header
- The app automatically detects your system preference on first load
- Your theme preference is saved and persists across sessions

### Troubleshooting Claude network errors

If you encounter the message `Network error: Unable to connect to Claude API`, work through the checklist below:

1. **Serve the app via HTTP/HTTPS** – Opening `index.html` directly from disk prevents secure cross-origin requests. Use a local server (`python -m http.server 8000`) or deploy to GitHub Pages.
2. **Enable browser access for your key** – In the Anthropic Console, visit **Settings → API Keys**, edit the key you saved in MyAI Notes, and toggle on **Browser access**.
3. **Allow outbound HTTPS** – Ensure your network allows access to `https://api.anthropic.com`. Corporate firewalls or VPNs may require allow-listing this domain.

After applying any changes, refresh the page and try expanding a note again.

## Project Structure

```
myai-notes/
├── index.html              # Main application page
├── settings.html           # Settings/configuration page
├── css/
│   └── style.css          # All styles with light/dark themes
├── js/
│   ├── main.js            # Core app logic (expand, save, export)
│   ├── storage.js         # localStorage management
│   ├── settings.js        # API key and model configuration
│   └── theme.js           # Dark/light mode toggle
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       ├── deploy.yml                 # GitHub Pages deployment config
│       └── pr-preview-artifact.yml    # Downloadable preview build for pull requests
└── README.md              # This file
```

## Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: HTML5, CSS3, Vanilla JavaScript (ES6+)
- **Storage**: Browser localStorage API
- **Markdown**: marked.js (v9.1.6)
- **API**: OpenAI Chat Completions API
- **Deployment**: GitHub Pages + GitHub Actions

## Security & Privacy

### What's Stored Locally
- Your OpenAI API key (encrypted by browser)
- All your notes and their content
- Model preferences (model type, temperature)
- Theme preference (light/dark)

### What's Sent to OpenAI
- Only the note content you choose to expand
- Your API key for authentication
- Model configuration (model name, temperature)

### What's NOT Collected
- No analytics or tracking
- No data sent to any third-party servers
- No account creation or login required
- No cookies (except localStorage for functionality)

### Best Practices
- Never share your API key with anyone
- Keep your OpenAI account secure
- Regularly backup your notes using JSON export
- Clear your API key if using a shared computer

## Cost Information

This app uses the OpenAI API, which charges based on usage:
- **GPT-4o-mini** (Recommended): ~$0.15 per million input tokens, ~$0.60 per million output tokens
- **GPT-4o**: ~$2.50 per million input tokens, ~$10 per million output tokens
- **GPT-3.5-turbo**: ~$0.50 per million input tokens, ~$1.50 per million output tokens

For typical note expansion (200 words in, 500 words out), expect:
- GPT-4o-mini: ~$0.001 per note
- GPT-4o: ~$0.01 per note

Check [OpenAI Pricing](https://openai.com/api/pricing/) for current rates.

## Troubleshooting

### "Please set your OpenAI API key in Settings"
- Go to Settings and enter your API key
- Make sure it starts with `sk-`
- Verify your key is valid at [OpenAI Platform](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)

### "Claude API key is missing"
- Toggle **Enable Claude (Anthropic)** in Settings
- Add your Claude key (should start with `sk-ant-`)
- Click **Save Key** and try again

### API Errors
- **401 Unauthorized**: Invalid API key
- **429 Rate Limit**: Too many requests, wait and try again
- **500 Server Error**: OpenAI service issue, try again later

### Network Errors When Calling Claude
- Ensure you are connected to the internet (the app will warn if you are offline)
- Make sure you are serving the app from `http://` or `https://` (opening `index.html` directly via `file://` prevents secure API calls)
- Verify that your firewall or browser settings allow outbound HTTPS requests to `https://api.anthropic.com`

### Notes Not Saving
- Check if localStorage is enabled in your browser
- Ensure you're not in private/incognito mode
- Check browser storage quota

### GitHub Pages Not Deploying
- Ensure GitHub Actions is enabled in repository settings
- Check that GitHub Pages source is set to "GitHub Actions"
- Review the Actions tab for deployment errors

## Development

### Pull Request Preview Environments

- Every open pull request automatically deploys a preview to the GitHub Pages site under
  `https://<your-username>.github.io/myai-notes/pr/<PR_NUMBER>/`.
- The PR bot comments with the exact link and updates it whenever new commits are pushed.
- Previews are cleaned up automatically when the pull request is closed.
- If you prefer downloadable archives instead, keep the `PR Preview (Downloadable)` workflow enabled.

### Local Development
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/myai-notes.git
cd myai-notes

# Serve locally
python -m http.server 8000
```

### Making Changes
1. Edit files in your local repository
2. Test thoroughly in your browser
3. Commit changes: `git commit -am "Description of changes"`
4. Push to main: `git push origin main`
5. GitHub Actions will automatically deploy to Pages

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Acknowledgments

- Built with vanilla JavaScript for simplicity and performance
- Markdown rendering by [marked.js](https://marked.js.org/)
- Powered by [OpenAI API](https://openai.com/api/) and [Anthropic Claude API](https://www.anthropic.com/)

## Support

For issues, questions, or suggestions:
- Open an issue on GitHub
- Check existing issues for solutions
- Review the OpenAI API documentation for API-related questions

---

Made with ❤️ for productive note-taking
